          THE TABLES TURNED

     very typical views
     All absolutes
     nature is very pristine

          UP! up! my Friend, and quit your books;      < Repetition 
          Or surely you'll grow double:
          Up! up! my Friend, and clear your looks;     < Repetition
          Why all this toil and trouble?

                                                  ^ exeptionally enthusiastic and positive

          The sun, above the mountain's head,          
          A freshening lustre mellow                   
          Through all the long green fields has spread,
          His first sweet evening yellow.              < Glow motif

          Books! 'tis a dull and endless strife:           < many exclamitories (books) (hark)
          Come, hear the woodland linnet,                             10
          How sweet his music! on my life,
          There's more of wisdom in it.

          And hark! how blithe the throstle sings!     < very beutiful
          He, too, is no mean preacher:
          Come forth into the light of things,
          Let Nature be your teacher.

          She has a world of ready wealth,
          Our minds and hearts to bless--
          Spontaneous wisdom breathed by health,
          Truth breathed by cheerfulness.                             20

          One impulse from a vernal wood
          May teach you more of man,
          Of moral evil and of good,
          Than all the sages can.

          Sweet is the lore which Nature brings;       
          Our meddling intellect
          Mis-shapes the beauteous forms of things:-- 
          We murder to dissect.                                       <more harm than good in the process

          Enough of Science and of Art;
          Close up those barren leaves;                               30 < dublicitous meaning
          Come forth, and bring with you a heart
          That watches and receives.
                                                              1798.








                                                              ^form- iambic pantamiter      needs to be expirienced